[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So, levels of consciousness,
I like to talk about them
in terms of levels
of understanding.
A level of consciousness can
be viewed as the understanding
that we've been able to come
to thus far in our lives.
So at a certain
point in my life--
I you'd always like to
use myself as an example--
is I was very angry, right?
And I saw a lot of antagonists
all over the place.
I could recognize them
very quickly and easily.
The level of
understanding that I
had come to at that
point in my life
was that these
antagonists are very real.
And if you can't see them,
you're not seeing reality.
For me, people that were
seeing things and saying they
were rosy, and
things were perfect,
I always considered
them to be people
that are going to get
punked, where they're
going to have a lot of
problems because they're going
to get victimized in some way.
The truth is, though, that
each level of consciousness
carries with it a
different reality.
And until you change your mind
and get a new understanding,
that new reality just doesn't
exist, or it seems false.
These go for a sense
of reality that
is below our level of
understanding-- for example,
if you're at the level of
understanding of shame,
and I look at you,
I'm at the level
of anger, which is a little
bit higher than that.
And you say, gosh,
why are you in shame,
you have no reason to
do that, forget them,
that type of thing.
So what's below me
seems ridiculous,
and what's above me as well.
Let's say someone who would
be forgiving, if you're
someone who's in anger, and
you look at forgiving people
as, boy, that's really stupid,
because you know what they're
going to do to you again.
So that's how the levels
of consciousness work.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Dr. David Hawkins did
great work on something
that he calls levels
of consciousness.
He started off by
doing muscle testing
to kind of validate
the different findings
that he would come up with.
It starts off at
a level of shame.
This is the very
lowest level of energy.
You have so low energy,
and shame, and humiliation,
that this is where a lot
of suicides take place.
It goes up from shame, guilt,
grief, fear, anger, desire,
and then pride, which
interestingly enough
is how we see things
in the United States,
is that's kind of the
highest level is pride.
But this is the
threshold at which
something huge happens, when we
go from fear to power or love.
And this change-- he gave
a numeric value to each one
of these--
it starts off at about 20,
and then it goes up to 50.
And then at about
level 200 is pride.
And this is a logarithmic scale.
So every jump up in
one number is worth
an awful lot of additional
power, if we will.
When we cross over
beyond the fear
base or all the willful
things that happen below 200,
we start to engage in a world
that's more synchronistic.
Below 200, all of the
things that happen
are happened by effort, force
of will, or it happened to me--
either I'm doing it or
somebody is doing it to me.
>> The only way we have a
chance is if God is with us,
that if there's something bigger
than all of us going on here.
And so though this
moment seems scary,
or this could
undermine us, I have
to assume that
that, too, is God.
Because I use a little
rougher language.
But I would say, either God
is with us or we are screwed.
And that's just the--
and so every time it looked
like something was going wrong,
I just said, this
too must be God,
because that's what
it's going to take.
And I think that fear--
what did I fear?
I didn't fear making the choice.
But I will say
there were times--
I think I come across--
and I am a pretty
calm, relaxed guy.
And for the first time, I
think I had panic attacks,
like a couple of times.
Right when the movie
was about to come out,
and then when it came out,
I'd be landing in the airport
or driving, and suddenly it
was like this black fluid
ran from the top my
head down on my feet.
Like I would be suddenly
just filled with fear--
they're watching me,
I'm putting my family
at risk, all of sort of
those thoughts, to the point
where I remember,
once, I was in my car.
I had to get off the road, and
pull over, and just breathe.
And I just thought,
what is going on?
And I look at the Bible a
lot in different ways, sort
of metaphysically at times.
And you think about this battle
with Satan, of this battle
with this sort of dark side.
And what I think is
interesting, and some things
I try to get through to people
is that even your best thoughts
can be dangerous.
And I recognized that that
fear was that I felt alone.
I suddenly felt vulnerable,
that I was all by myself.
And what would usually
talk me off of that ledge
was, OK, let's
take it back, Del.
Right now you're thinking you're
responsible to save the world.
And you're-- you know,
this whole thing.
And I would go back and say,
all you are is a filmmaker, Del.
All you did was set up a camera.
You put people in front of it.
They spoke their truth.
And you edited those things
together, and you made a movie.
Now what everyone's
saying that movie
is doing, what
they're saying you're
responsible for, and
the pedestal they're
putting-- all of that
is out of your control.
That is not who you are.
And I think that now--
it's been probably a year
and a half since something
has happened.
Because I see it coming now.
I see the danger.
And it starts with,
I got to do more.
You got to see these kids,
these autistic children
with their parents, or
these injured children.
And there's an anger and
there's a frustration.
And then I just keep
thinking, I've got to do more,
I, I, I. Without me
it doesn't change.
And those thoughts
are debilitating.
And they're not accurate.
And so I think fear only has
come in at those moments where
I think I'm doing something.
And when I get back to the
fact that I'm just a vessel,
that I'm simply just allowing
what is desired by, I think,
this moment, this time, then--
and we're all just vessels.
The constant struggle is just
to keep yourself in check
and recognize that
you're not doing it.
It's something vigorous.
[SYNTHESIZER MUSIC]
When I lived in
New York City, when
I was an actor, when I was
younger, and people would say,
Del, do you feel in danger
when you're in New York?
And certainly there's time
you're walking late at night,
you find yourself on
a subway in Harlem.
And I said, I
don't walk in fear.
I feel very safe.
I walk and carry myself as
a person that I feel safe.
And they're like,
well, don't you
think you should be more aware?
And I said, I think
there's a danger to being
too aware or too afraid.
Because there's two times in
New York-- where one time,
I remember walking
down the street,
and suddenly I just felt cold.
I felt dark.
And I was like, are
the streetlights out?
Something felt wrong.
And I just thought, that's
not my usual state of being.
Something's going on.
And I just turned around
and got off that street.
Another time on the
subway, someone got on,
and the energy just
suddenly did not feel right.
And so I think you
can't feel that shift
if you're in a place of fear.
You're constantly living in a
place of darkness and coldness.
And so you'll have no
awareness of danger
when it's actually
in your presence.
It's better to carry yourself
with a positive energy
and know you're safe.
And then you'll know,
and you'll feel it.
Your intuition will let you
know something just shifted.
Listen to that.
And so it's not that
you're never afraid.
But be aware of when
that has shifted.
And then act on that.
>> There's currently a lot
of fear being generated
in society.
I tend to think about
this like the fever
in a robust immune system.
It's necessary to have that
fever rise in order for healing
to take place.
It's uncomfortable,
but it's building
to an eruption that
happens before a resolution
and healing--
or a new awakening-- emerges.
>> I think we're watching
sort of the end game
of a controlling, and dark, and
fearful concept of humanity.
And its coming against an
awakening that's taking place.
And I like to think that
light is going to win here.
But I don't know.
And I don't know what
the time periods are,
and I don't know
what we're a part of.
All I know is what I'm
being called to do.
And I see it around me.
I see so many people feeling
something-- like this
is a moment, it's a
moment I have to speak up,
I've got to tell the
truth now-- coming
from many different
walks of life.
We're all finding each
other in the same stadium,
the same room, looking
at the same goal.
And we are seeing a
pushback now because we
are creating a defensive
nature on the other side, too.
I think that we need to believe
in the now, in the moment.
I think you have
to put the past--
the past is what the past was.
And the future, we have no idea.
I'm not going to predict how
long or what it's taking.
What I know is this is a
massive moment right now.
And I believe things
can shift overnight.
I believe that can
happen like that.
Wherever I speak, I always
think-- sometimes there's
only 10 people in the
room, other times there's
1,000 people in the room.
And the 10 people say, sorry
more people didn't show up.
And I think, it may be
one person right here
that was that thing
that knew somebody that
went and changed everything.
But I would not be
here if I did not
think the sons and daughters
of light were going to win.
>> How do you access
that inner knowing?
Because we have so many
messages coming at us.
How do you personally
access that inner knowing?
>> Well, nowadays, with
everything bombarding us,
with social media and
information, it's hard.
So the first thing
is to be still.
So when I start a day,
before I see patients,
I'm just in my office.
I'm still, close my eyes.
I just concentrate.
I say a little prayer.
And I just ask for wisdom
and for discernment.
And wow, it's wonderful.
[AMBIENT MUSIC]
>> At about 400, the level
of genius starts to unfurl.
And the most interesting thing
that I learned about this
was that it was in letting
go of our judgments,
of having one perspective.
Einstein, Galileo, all the
likes of these great masters
out there, they all had
this one thing in common.
And that was they would let
go of their perspective,
and they would look at it
from multiple perspectives.
They wouldn't consider
a problem solved
until they had looked at it
from multiple perspectives.
And in that way, they
were able to come out
with all kinds of genius ideas.
As the Scale of
Consciousness goes up to 500,
interesting things
start to happen.
You'll get-- at a level
of 500, which is love,
you'll start to counterbalance
the people that are below 200.
So there's an
interesting effect of,
just by being your very nature
of being a loving soul, that
starts to counterbalance
all of those other anger,
and hatred, and things that take
place below the level of 200.
At a level of 600, which is pure
bliss, and joy, and oneness,
you're counterbalancing 10
million people below 200.
Not many people get there.
It's more common
really for people
to take very small moves.
And the reason they
take a small move--
meaning, let's say, your
level of understanding is 200,
and for you to go to, let's
say, 205 in a lifetime
is most common.
And the reason it's most
common is because everything's
a self-fulfilling prophecy.
You look at the world
and you see the truth.
But guess what?
There's a different
truth involved out there
if you could get a
new understanding.
[SYNTH POP MUSIC]
>> The relationship between
mother and child is a blueprint
for unconditional love.
How can this
primary relationship
contribute to our
level of consciousness
and lifelong immunity?
So Dr. Leslie, you're
trained as a pediatrician.
>> Yes.
>> What brought you to
this new way of thinking?
Because it's very unique
for medical doctors
to be open and sensitive
to these kinds of issues.
What was your journey, in
brief, that brought you here?
>> Well, we are all connected.
I don't believe that
we are separated
being from every being in
earth, in the universe.
We are all connected.
So the mother and child,
they create these--
like one piece, especially
the first seven years of life.
So moms and children
are connected.
And I understood that
a lot of the diseases
that the child
was going through,
it was not just the child.
It was coming from the mother.
So then I start
switching into looking
for alternative therapies to
help the mom heal her emotions.
And then I would see great
results in the child's health.
Which that was amazing for me.
Because I thought how
can they be connected?
But they are.
They are connected.
So whatever the child
is going through,
we have to work also
with mom's emotions.
>> So I met you here at Hope
for Cancer when I was here
for my treatment.
And there's definitely
an environment here
that's healing.
There is a coherence with
people's purpose here.
Can you tell me something
about the energy that's here--
why this place is
successful, why
this place can build immunity
in a way that's unique.
>> Well, at the physical level,
there's just so much that Dr.
Tony and the whole crew has
been able to put together from
around the world.
So I'm sure that we got the
best of the best of the world
in just one place.
And at the emotional
level is something
that I don't think that
everybody takes care of,
and we do.
So I think we see the being,
the person as a whole,
and not just as a physical body
that they need to be healed,
in a natural way or
the less-harm way,
but also as a mind, as
a heart, and as a soul.
We need to connect
to that spirituality.
And one of our
purposes-- or my purpose
is to take care of that part.
And my purpose is to bring
people into this connection
again, to the source.
>> You definitely do that.
Because your influence
is extremely positive
here at the clinic.
And yeah, everybody feels
very comforted by that.
>> And I think
it's a lot of love.
We all love what we're doing.
We love being here.
We feel that we're
doing the right thing.
And I think once you know
you're doing the right thing,
there is no way you can not
feel happy and protected.
And then you project
that with the patients.
They feel that way.
>> That's great.
When you know you're doing the
right thing, you feel happy.
>> Absolutely, yes.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
>> Just as fear can be
an impetus to awakening,
my own fear led me to make
choices regarding changes
in diet, meditation, different
practices and alternative
treatments that didn't include
radiation, chemo, or surgery.
The expansion of my
own consciousness
has motivated me to
seek greater coherence.
Next we'll take a look at how
aligning with your deepest
beliefs can help you to choose
real immunity for yourself
and your family.
[ORCHESTRAL POP MUSIC]